SYNOPSIS
  






So the extreme ownership is about responsiblity and leadership.Of all the exceptional leaders they served along side throught out their entire military career,the consistent attribute that made them great was that they took absolute ownership-extreme ownership.That is not they were just resopnsible but also being a good leader.

Introduction:
  It was about ramadi, iraq: the combat leader's dilemma.They uses a HMMWV  meaning high mobility multipurpose vehicle, also called as humvee.it was dark that day and the night was quiet Intelligence reported that there were high-level terrorist leader and well-armed fighters were harboured, and that was true. The army named platoon of navy seals kitted up with helmets,body armor and gear combined with iraqi soldiers, dismounted from the vehicle and aligned in position.

A particularly evli insurgeant responsible for american soldiers, iraqi soldiers and innocent peoples, this notorious al-quaeda had sucessfully evaded capture for months. The seal assault forces broke the door open and started to push with humvees entering inside and targeting a building. And the SEAL team manning a heavy machine guns reeady to provide support anytime if things went sideways.
Leif babin was the ground force commander, the senior seal in charge commander, Suddenly the EOD operator yelled"we have got a squirter" meaning someone fleeting , perhaps it was the terrorist himself or someone about information. they both chased him down the streets. And caught him jumping on him, and they ran away from their squad, the EOD operator and the leif babin the commander. when they caught the man, they notices seven or eight meen approaching the commander and EOD with ak-47 rifles and rpg-7 guns. Surely they were not here to shake hands with them. 

This is where the leadership skills need to be used as a commander, he was a intense trained personnel in army and had been taught to handle a situation like these. Blood-pumping , adrenaline surging, he knows every nano second counted. So the fraction of seconds was like an hour, he used all his trainings, prioritise,execute. 
The commander takes his gun with a solid decision to attack and maneuver those gunners, It was a hard decision though, and he manages to save him and his EOD operator and finished the entire squad of al-quaeda.
Then they came back to their squad safely with some minor injuries with the man they chased down.

Conclusion: It takes a lot of practise to be a leader ,and it is the key to any success.


                    LEADERSHIP: THE SINGLE MOST IMPORTANT FACTOR.

 Leif Babin and Jocko williams.
This book is not a war memoir. It is instead a collection of lessons learned from our experiences through seal combat operations. Every leader and every team at some point or time will fail and must confront that failure. That  too is a big part of this book.
 The experiences in combat and the stories told in this book come from what will always be highlight of their military careers: SEAL three teams, Task   Unit Bruiser, and our historic combat deployment to AR Ramadi, Iraq,In 2006 what became the battle of ramadi.Jocko led the Bruiser team as task unit commander.Bruiser teams played an integral role in the U.S Army 1st armoured division.In the spring of 2006 when task unit bruiser arrived in ramadi, it was the deadly epicenter of the iraqi insurgency.At that time U.S Army controlled about only one third of the city.Every day, brave U.S soldiers and marines were bloodied. The camp ramadi medical facility saw a near constant     flow of severly wounded or died.
